Israel launches ground offensive in southern Lebanon : NPR 
Accessibility links 
Skip to main content 

Keyboard shortcuts for audio player 

Open Navigation Menu 

Newsletters 

NPR Shop 

Close Navigation Menu 

Home 

News Expand/collapse submenu for News 

National 

World 

Politics 

Business 

Health 

Science 

Climate 

Race 

Culture Expand/collapse submenu for Culture 

Books 

Movies 

Television 

Pop Culture 

Food 

Art & Design 

Performing Arts 

Life Kit 

Gaming 

Music Expand/collapse submenu for Music 

Tiny Desk 

New Music Friday 

All Songs Considered 

Music Features 

Live Sessions 

Podcasts & Shows Expand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & Shows 

Daily 
Morning Edition 

Weekend Edition Saturday 

Weekend Edition Sunday 

All Things Considered 

Up First 

Here & Now 

NPR Politics Podcast 
Featured 
Wait Wait...Don't Tell Me! 

Fresh Air 

Wild Card with Rachel Martin 

It's Been a Minute 

Planet Money 

Get NPR+ 

More Podcasts & Shows 

Search 

Newsletters 

NPR Shop 

Tiny Desk 

New Music Friday 

All Songs Considered 

Music Features 

Live Sessions 

About NPR 

Diversity 

Support 

Careers 

Press 

Ethics 

Israel launches ground offensive in southern Lebanon The Israeli military has launched what it called a "limited, localized" ground offensive in southern Lebanon against the Iran-backed Lebanese militant group Hezbollah. 

Special Series 
Middle East conflict 

Conflict in the Middle East has been escalating. These stories provide context for current developments and the history that led up to them. 

Israel launches a 'limited' ground offensive in southern Lebanon 

Updated September 30, 2024 7:44 PM ET Originally published September 30, 2024 1:06 PM ET 

By 

Daniel Estrin 

, 

Alex Leff 

Israeli soldiers are deployed in the Upper Galilee region of northern Israel near the border with Lebanon on Sunday. Menahem Kahana/AFP via Getty Images hide caption 

toggle caption 
Menahem Kahana/AFP via Getty Images 

TEL AVIV, Israel — The Israeli military has launched what it called a "limited, localized" ground offensive in southern Lebanon against the Iran-backed Lebanese militant group Hezbollah. 

"These targets are located in villages close to the border and pose an immediate threat to Israeli communities in northern Israel," the Israeli military said on social media late Monday. 

It said the Israeli air force and artillery "are supporting the ground forces with precise strikes on military targets in the area." 

An Israeli tank maneuvers in northern Israel near the Israel-Lebanon border, Monday. Baz Ratner/AP hide caption 

toggle caption 
Baz Ratner/AP 

Earlier in the day, Hezbollah’s deputy leader, Naim Kassem, said in a televised address that "the resistance forces are ready for a ground engagement." That was despite a series of devastating Israeli attacks on Hezbollah leaders and members in recent weeks. 

Sponsor Message 

The Lebanese army had moved back from some checkpoints at the southern border with Israel amid intense artillery shelling by Israeli forces. A Lebanese army official, who asked not to be identified because he was not authorized to speak publicly, told NPR this was a "redeployment" from forward positions vulnerable to an Israeli incursion. 

Another official in the Middle East, who spoke on condition of anonymity because of the sensitivity of the operation, told NPR earlier in the day that Israel had already conducted brief intelligence-gathering raids inside southern Lebanon as it prepared for a limited ground offensive. “Everything is on the table,” the official said about the imminent ground incursion. 

The offensive follows days of intensifying fighting between Israel and Hezbollah. Israeli strikes across Lebanon have killed more than 1,000 people in less than two weeks and forced many to flee their homes, according to Lebanon's Health Ministry. The strikes have targeted Hezbollah and its weapons, killing leader Hassan Nasrallah and several top officials, but they have also killed many civilians . 

Middle East 

Israeli airstrikes leave blast sites and wounded in Lebanon's Bekaa Valley 

Israel and Hezbollah began trading attacks back and forth across the Israel-Lebanon border after the Oct. 7 assault on Israel led by the Palestinian militant group Hamas. In support of Hamas, Hezbollah says it will continue firing rockets into northern Israel until there's a cease-fire in Israel's military campaign in Gaza. Israel says it will keep targeting Hezbollah until Israeli residents can safely return to their homes in northern Israel after fleeing attacks from militants on the Lebanese side of the border. 

Sponsor Message 

Middle East 
Lebanon prepares to bury Hezbollah leader Hassan Nasrallah 

Lebanon prepares to bury Hezbollah leader Hassan Nasrallah 

Listen · 3:36 
3:36 

Transcript Toggle more options 
Download 

Embed 
Embed < iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/nx-s1-5132655/nx-s1-efb12300-0a62-4f15-932d-5393c1c9d188" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player"> 

Transcript 

Tamir Hayman, who served as the head of Israel’s military intelligence directorate until 2021, said in an interview on Israeli Army Radio on Monday that Israel’s airstrikes in Lebanon had successfully knocked Hezbollah off balance. 

Middle East conflict 

From pager blasts to Nasrallah’s killing: 12 days that transformed a bloody conflict 

But he said Israel should think through the purpose of a ground invasion: Is it to create a permanent security buffer zone that Israel would occupy long term, with much international opposition, or only to remain temporarily to destroy Hezbollah infrastructure? 

Middle East conflict 

An airstrike hits a Beirut residential building as Israel expands attacks in Lebanon 

“Are we there in order to reach a deal and then leaving? Are we there in order to stay?” Hayman said. 

The U.S. is sending additional forces to the region 

The senior U.S. official told NPR that the Pentagon will send a “few thousand” more troops to the Middle East, focused on air defense capabilities. 

The U.S. is concerned about retaliation to Israel’s moves by Iran and Iranian-supported militias in the region. Such a retaliation could threaten U.S. troops in Iraq and Syria. 

Loading... 

Israel’s strikes in Yemen offer a message to Iran 

Israel’s conflict with the Iran-backed Houthis in Yemen is also intensifying. 

On Saturday, the Houthis, the main military group in Yemen, launched a ballistic missile toward central Israel, saying it was targeting Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s airplane returning from addressing the United Nations General Assembly in New York. 

World 

The Pentagon says it wants to prevent Iran from spreading the conflict in the Middle East 

Netanyahu landed in Israel shortly before air raid sirens wailed at the airport and throughout central Israel. The Israeli military said it intercepted the missile midair. 

On Sunday, Israel’s military said it sent dozens of fighter jets and refueling aircraft more than 1,000 miles away to Yemen, where it said it bombed power plants and a seaport used by the Houthis to import oil for military purposes. The Houthis said the areas hit were civilian targets and that at least four people were killed and dozens wounded in the Israeli strikes. 

Israeli security analysts said Israel’s bombing campaign in Yemen was a message to Iran, showing Israel’s long-range flight capability as a tacit warning to Iran that it, too, was within Israel’s reach. 

Sponsor Message 

This is a developing story that may be updated. 

Daniel Estrin reported from Tel Aviv, Israel; Alex Leff from Washington, D.C. Jane Arraf contributed reporting from Beirut and Tom Bowman contributed reporting from Washington. 

Hezbollah 

Iran-backed groups 

Israel 

Israel and Hezbollah 

Lebanon 

Facebook 

Flipboard 

Email 

Read & Listen 
Home 

News 

Culture 

Music 

Podcasts & Shows 

Connect 
Newsletters 

Facebook 

Instagram 

Press 

Public Editor 

Corrections 

Transcripts 

Contact & Help 

About NPR 
Overview 

Diversity 

NPR Network 

Accessibility 

Ethics 

Finances 

Get Involved 
Support Public Radio 

Sponsor NPR 

NPR Careers 

NPR Shop 

NPR Extra 

Terms of Use 

Privacy 

Your Privacy Choices 

Text Only 

Sponsor Message 

Sponsor Message 

Become an NPR sponsor