Lebanon latest: Israel launches ground invasion against Hezbollah 

Skip to content 

Watch Live 

Home 

News 

Sport 

Business 

Technology 

Health 

Culture 

Arts 

Travel 

Earth 

Audio 

Video 

Live 

Documentaries 

Home 

News 

Sport 

Business 

Technology 

Health 

Culture 

Arts 

Travel 

Earth 

Audio 

Video 

Live 

Documentaries 

Weather 

Newsletters 

Watch Live 

Israel launches ground invasion in Lebanon 

1 October 2024 
Share Save 

Add as preferred on Google 

George Wright , BBC News and 

Mallory Moench , BBC News 

Getty Images 

The site of Israeli artillery shelling on the Lebanese villages of Adeisseh and Kfar Kila along the border with Israel 

Israel has launched a ground invasion in southern Lebanon, in what it has described as "limited, localised and targeted" raids against Hezbollah. 

Lebanese civilians are being warned not to use vehicles to travel south across the Litani river, located 20 miles north of the Israel-Lebanon border, and residents in around 25 villages have been told to evacuate and head north. 

According to the Israel Defense Forces (IDF), the operation is aimed at the Iran-backed group's "infrastructure", which it says poses "an immediate threat to Israeli communities in northern Israel". 

An Israeli senior security official told the BBC earlier that ground forces had only ventured a "very close walking distance" into Lebanon, but Hezbollah deny claims that troops are in the country. 

Live: Latest news on Israel and Hezbollah 

Explained: What to know about the Israel-Hezbollah conflict 

Analysis: What might Hezbollah, Israel and Iran do next? 

Watch: Explosions seen on Israel-Lebanon border 

Bowen: Israel claims its biggest victory yet against Hezbollah 

The militant group said its fighters were "ready for a direct confrontation" but there had been no direct clashes between them and Israeli forces, a claim confirmed to the BBC by an Israeli source. 

Hezbollah has also claimed to have fired at the headquarters of Mossad, the international arm of Israel's intelligence service, in Tel Aviv. 

Meanwhile, Israeli airstrikes in Lebanon are continuing. 

Israel's Defence Minister Yoav Gallant previously implied the army was ready for a ground operation, telling troops near the Lebanese border Israel was prepared to use forces "from the air, sea and land" to target Hezbollah. 

In a statement posted on X at 02:00 local time on Tuesday morning, the IDF confirmed troops had moved across the border following a build-up of tanks and other armour in northern Israel. 

The Lebanese army is pulling back troops stationed on its southern border to at least 5km (3 miles) north, according to Reuters news agency, which cited a Lebanese security source. 

Lebanon's prime minister, Najib Mikati, said on Tuesday that his country was facing "one of the most dangerous phases" in its history. 

Around one million people had been displaced across Lebanon since Israeli air strikes began last month, he added. 

Speaking during a meeting with United Nations organisations, Mikati issued an "urgent call" for more aid to help support them. 

The IDF's Arabic spokesperson Avichay Adraee has also listed 25 villages in southern Lebanon, telling residents there to evacuate immediately. 

He added: "Any home used by Hezbollah for its military needs is expected to be targeted." 

On Monday, Gallant told Israeli troops at the border that Israel's military would use all "the means at our disposal" to allow displaced people to return home in the north of the country. 

In a short video, he said the "elimination" of Hezbollah leader Hassan Nasrallah in Beirut on Friday "is a very important step, but it is not everything". 

He added that "everything that needs to be done - will be done" and that "we will use all the forces from the air, sea and land". 

The Israeli government has pledged to make it safe for tens of thousands of its citizens to return to their homes after nearly a year of cross-border fighting, which began with Hezbollah firing rockets at the start of the war in Gaza. 

The Lebanese armed group - which is proscribed as a terrorist organisation by the US, UK and other countries - is known to have extensive tunnel networks as well as bunkers and other military infrastructure just over the border from Israel. 

Hezbollah's deputy chief Sheikh Naim Qassem said the group - which is thought to have tens of thousands of well-trained fighters - was ready for an Israeli ground offensive. He described their attacks on Israel so far as the "minimum", adding that the battle could be long. 

Hezbollah - which is backed by Iran - has experienced mass casualties from exploding pagers and walkie-talkies, a wave of assassinations of its military commanders and devastating air strikes which have killed civilians, as well as the use of bunker-busting bombs in Beirut, which killed the group's leader, Hassan Nasrallah, on Friday. 

Explosions lit up the night sky on Monday as airstrikes hit Hezbollah’s stronghold of Dahieh, in Beirut's southern suburbs, near the airport. 

The attacks came shortly after the Israeli military warned residents to evacuate buildings it said were linked to the group. 

In southern Lebanon, there were reports of heavy shelling in the border town of Aita al-Shaab. 

And near the city of Sidon, officials say a strike hit a building in a crowded Palestinian refugee camp, the first time it has been attacked in this conflict. 

Lebanese officials say more than 1,000 people have been killed in the past two weeks, while around a million may now be displaced. 

On Monday, US President Joe Biden said "we should have a ceasefire now". 

"I'm more aware than you might know and I'm comfortable with them stopping," Biden told reporters when asked if he was comfortable with Israeli plans for a cross-border incursion. 

UK Foreign Secretary David Lammy spoke to his US counterpart Antony Blinken on Monday, with the US State Department saying they discussed efforts to resolve the conflict. Both men stressed the need for a ceasefire and that the hostages taken by Hezbollah's Palestinian ally Hamas in the 7 October attack on Israel need to be returned home. 

The European Union's member states have called for an urgent meeting of the UN Security Council. EU foreign policy chief Josep Borrell said "any further military intervention would dramatically aggravate the situation and it has to be avoided". 

EPA 

Israeli tanks had been assembling close to the border with Lebanon for several days in advance of the ground incursion 

Meanwhile, Israel and Hamas have both confirmed the killing of the head of Hamas in Lebanon, Fateh Sherif Abu el-Amin, in Israeli strikes in southern Lebanon. 

Israel's military said Sherif was "responsible for co-ordinating Hamas's terror activities in Lebanon with Hezbollah operatives". 

Another Israeli strike in the central Beirut neighbourhood of Kola early on Monday killed three members of the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine (PFLP), the Palestinian armed group said in a statement. 

The statement named those killed as military security chief Mohammad Abdel-Aal, military commander Imad Odeh and fighter Abdel Rahman Abdel-Aal. 

The previously sporadic cross-border fighting between Israel and Hezbollah escalated on 8 October 2023 - the day after the unprecedented attack on Israel by Hamas gunmen from the Gaza Strip - when Hezbollah fired at Israeli positions, in solidarity with the Palestinians. 

What is Hezbollah and why is Israel attacking Lebanon? 

Analysing videos showing strikes that killed Nasrallah 

Israel-Gaza war 

Israel 

Hezbollah 

Lebanon 

Hamas 

Related 

Israel releases all but two activists in Greece after intercepting Gaza aid flotilla 

Israel intercepts Gaza flotilla near Crete and detains 175 activists 

Parents urge UK to act after son detained by Israel 

More from the BBC 

42 mins ago 

Israeli police arrest man after nun attacked in Jerusalem 

The French nun was pushed over and kicked in the apparently unprovoked assault, amid a rise in harassment of Christians in the city by Jewish extremists. 

42 mins ago 

2 hrs ago 

Manchester born and bred, but moving to Israel 

Richard Manville has lived in the UK all his life, but now he's leaving for Israel because he says the antisemitism here is intolerable. 

2 hrs ago 

7 hrs ago 

Deadly Israeli strikes on southern Lebanon despite ceasefire 

Seventeen people - including two children - were killed, according to Lebanon's health ministry. 

7 hrs ago 

2 days ago 

Israeli 'double-tap' strike kills three rescue workers in Lebanon, officials say 

They are among nine people killed in successive attacks on Tuesday, which Israel's military says targeted a Hezbollah commander. 

2 days ago 

2 days ago 

Watch: There's a ceasefire in Lebanon - but the fighting hasn't stopped 

Israel and Hezbollah are still fighting in Lebanon despite a US-brokered ceasefire that began 12 days ago. 

2 days ago 

Home 

News 

Sport 

Business 

Technology 

Health 

Culture 

Arts 

Travel 

Earth 

Audio 

Video 

Live 

Documentaries 

Weather 

BBC Shop 

BritBox 

BBC in other languages 

The BBC is in multiple languages 
Read the BBC In your own language 

Oduu Afaan Oromootiin 

Amharic ዜና በአማርኛ 

Arabic عربي 

Azeri AZƏRBAYCAN 

Bangla বাংলা 

Burmese မြန်မာ 

Chinese 中文网 

Dari دری 

French AFRIQUE 

Hausa HAUSA 

Hindi हिन्दी 

Gaelic NAIDHEACHDAN 

Gujarati ગુજરાતીમાં સમાચાર 

Igbo AKỤKỌ N’IGBO 

Indonesian INDONESIA 

Japanese 日本語 

Kinyarwanda GAHUZA 

Kirundi KIRUNDI 

Korean 한국어 

Kyrgyz Кыргыз 

Marathi मराठी 

Nepali नेपाली 

Noticias para hispanoparlantes 

Pashto پښتو 

Persian فارسی 

Pidgin 

Polish PO POLSKU 

Portuguese BRASIL 

Punjabi ਪੰਜਾਬੀ ਖ਼ਬਰਾਂ 

Russian НА РУССКОМ 

Serbian NA SRPSKOM 

Sinhala සිංහල 

Somali SOMALI 

Swahili HABARI KWA KISWAHILI 

Tamil தமிழில் செய்திகள் 

Telugu తెలుగు వార్తలు 

Thai ข่าวภาษาไทย 

Tigrinya ዜና ብትግርኛ 

Turkish TÜRKÇE 

Ukrainian УКРАЇНСЬКA 

Urdu اردو 

Uzbek O'ZBEK 

Vietnamese TIẾNG VIỆT 

Welsh NEWYDDION 

Yoruba ÌRÒYÌN NÍ YORÙBÁ 

Follow BBC on: 

Terms of Use 

Subscription Terms 

About the BBC 

Privacy Policy 

Cookies 

Accessibility Help 

Contact the BBC 

Advertise with us 

Do not share or sell my info 

BBC.com Help & FAQs 

Content Index 

Set Preferred Source 

Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.