Lebanon's government seeks global support amid Israel invasion : NPR 
Accessibility links 
Skip to main content 

Keyboard shortcuts for audio player 

Open Navigation Menu 

Newsletters 

NPR Shop 

Close Navigation Menu 

Home 

News Expand/collapse submenu for News 

National 

World 

Politics 

Business 

Health 

Science 

Climate 

Race 

Culture Expand/collapse submenu for Culture 

Books 

Movies 

Television 

Pop Culture 

Food 

Art & Design 

Performing Arts 

Life Kit 

Gaming 

Music Expand/collapse submenu for Music 

Tiny Desk 

New Music Friday 

All Songs Considered 

Music Features 

Live Sessions 

Podcasts & Shows Expand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & Shows 

Daily 
Morning Edition 

Weekend Edition Saturday 

Weekend Edition Sunday 

All Things Considered 

Up First 

Here & Now 

NPR Politics Podcast 
Featured 
Wait Wait...Don't Tell Me! 

Fresh Air 

Wild Card with Rachel Martin 

It's Been a Minute 

Planet Money 

Get NPR+ 

More Podcasts & Shows 

Search 

Newsletters 

NPR Shop 

Tiny Desk 

New Music Friday 

All Songs Considered 

Music Features 

Live Sessions 

About NPR 

Diversity 

Support 

Careers 

Press 

Ethics 

Lebanon's government seeks global support amid Israel invasion Lebanese Prime Minister Najib Mikati said his country was facing “one of the most dangerous phases of its history” amid Israel’s ground incursion into southern Lebanon, which began late Monday. 

Special Series 
Middle East conflict 

Conflict in the Middle East has been escalating. These stories provide context for current developments and the history that led up to them. 

Lebanon's government urges international community for support amid Israel’s invasion 

October 1, 2024 12:01 PM ET 

By 

Ruth Sherlock 

, 

Rebecca Rosman 

A man documents destroyed buildings at the site of an Israeli airstrike in Beirut's southern suburb, Lebanon, on Tuesday. Hassan Ammar/AP hide caption 

toggle caption 
Hassan Ammar/AP 

Lebanese politicians urgently called on the international community to pressure Israel to stop its advance into Lebanese territory on Tuesday, as Israeli troops crossed into southern Lebanon in an operation targeting Hezbollah outposts. 

Lebanon’s caretaker prime minister, Najib Mikati, warned on Tuesday that his country was facing “one of the most dangerous phases of its history,” urging the United Nations for emergency funding for civilians impacted by the conflict. 

Middle East conflict 

Israel begins ground offensive in Lebanon 

Imran Riza, the U.N’s deputy special coordinator in Lebanon, said the country was seeking $426 million in U.N. assistance. 

“As violence escalates, we call on the global community to provide this much needed support and to ensure protection of civilians,” Riza said. “Without sufficient resources, humanitarians risk leaving the population of an entire country without the support they urgently require.” 

Sponsor Message 

Middle East conflict 

Iran carries out a massive missile attack on Israel, expanding the Middle East conflict 

Israeli airstrikes have killed more than 1,000 people in Lebanon over the last two weeks, according to Lebanon’s Health Ministry. The U.N. says around 1 million people — nearly a fifth of the country — have been displaced from their homes while fleeing this bombardment. 

Israel’s offensive follows days of intensifying fighting between Israel and Hezbollah, an Iran-backed Lebanese militant group. 

Middle East conflict 

From pager blasts to Nasrallah’s killing: 12 days that transformed a bloody conflict 

The conflict entered a dramatic new phase over the weekend, following Israel’s killing of Hezbollah’s longtime leader Hassan Nasrallah, as well as several other top officials. 

Loading... 

And now Israel says it is running a “limited” incursion of “targeted ground raids” in southern Lebanon aimed at Hezbollah militants that pose a threat to communities in northern Israel. Israeli authorities say about 63,000 Israelis remain displaced from the border area with Lebanon due to Hezbollah rocket fire. 

Middle East conflict 

When Israel launched its invasion of Gaza 

Israel used similar wording about limited raids at the start of its invasion of the Gaza Strip following the Oct. 7 Hamas-led attack on Israel, and the Israeli invasion of Gaza has since expanded and continued to grind on one year later. So Israel's latest comments have raised skepticism in Lebanon about the actual scope of the operation. 

“This is not an incursion, this is an invasion,” Najat Aoun Saliba, a Lebanese member of parliament, told NPR. “We've been invaded by another country and we have to call on the international community to call it as such.” 

Saliba urged world leaders to call on Israel to put an immediate end to its military offensive in Lebanon. 

Sponsor Message 

“We definitely keep saying violence cannot stop violence. We need diplomatic efforts to stop the violence,” Saliba said. “We don't want Lebanon to also turn into another Gaza.” 

Israel and Hezbollah began trading attacks back and forth across the Israel-Lebanon border after the Oct. 7 assault on Israel led by the Palestinian militant group Hamas. 

In support of Hamas, Hezbollah says it will continue firing rockets into northern Israel until there's a cease-fire in Israel's military campaign in Gaza. 

Lebanon 

Israel and Hezbollah 

Hezbollah 

Israel 

Facebook 

Flipboard 

Email 

Read & Listen 
Home 

News 

Culture 

Music 

Podcasts & Shows 

Connect 
Newsletters 

Facebook 

Instagram 

Press 

Public Editor 

Corrections 

Transcripts 

Contact & Help 

About NPR 
Overview 

Diversity 

NPR Network 

Accessibility 

Ethics 

Finances 

Get Involved 
Support Public Radio 

Sponsor NPR 

NPR Careers 

NPR Shop 

NPR Extra 

Terms of Use 

Privacy 

Your Privacy Choices 

Text Only 

Sponsor Message 

Sponsor Message 

Become an NPR sponsor